Alright in this course all the source
code examples are tracked inside of
GitHub. Now I get a lot of different
skill levels who are taking this course
my students are from a variety of
different backgrounds some of you are
just starting your programming careers
well others of you are experienced
developers and developing or expanding out
on your skills. Now if you are
experienced with git and GitHub and
you're comfortable using these tools go
ahead and skip this video. This is going
to be redundant for you if you already
know this however if you are not
comfortable using GitHub go ahead and
please continue with this video there's
a lot of great information in it. So GitHub is
a website built around the source
control software git. Git is a software
which allows for the
incremental tracking of changes made to
source code. Git is formally defined as a
distributed version control system. Now
as you work through this course I feel it
is important for you to have accurate
and complete source code examples to
work from and this is exactly why I'm
using GitHub. In this course you will
have complete access to working source
code examples but GitHub is more than
just source control, GitHub has a lot of
social aspects, these aspects allow developers to easily collaborate
together. The same aspects makes Github
highly popular for use on open source
development teams, for example all Spring
Framework projects are tracked inside a
GitHub. You can head over to GitHub for
the spring framework source code and see
exactly how the team is using it to
manage a large-scale project with
hundreds of developers from all over the
world so it's important for you to be
proficient in using GitHub now I want
to point out that GitHub is completely
free to use the git client is completely
free so there's no cost involved for you
to help you get up to speed on using
GitHub I'm going to share several
resources with you. You can find these
links in the course resources these
links are videos created by
the company behind GitHub. The first is a
short video called what is GitHub. This
video explains to you
the concepts behind GitHub and how it's
used for social coding these are the
aspects that make it so popular with
large development teams, these features
are important because I will be using
GitHub in the course to share source
examples with you and we can leverage
these social features to help support
you in this course. For example let's say
you have a problem you can't resolve I
may ask you to share your project with
me on GitHub then I will go in and fork
your project to my repository on GitHub,
this allows me to download the code from
my repository to my machine, now I get
your entire project just not some code
So I can see exactly what
you're seeing then I can run the code
I'll find the problem fix it I can bring
it up in the debugger or whatever then
I'll check in my changes of the fork
that I created from your project and
then using GitHub I will send you a pull
request with an explanation of what I
fixed. You can then emerge in that pull
request of your git repository and see
exactly what I change now this is really
important because you get full
visibility of changes that I made to
your code to fix it. The next thing I'm
going to share with you and the course
resources is a playlist on YouTube this
playlist is a series of videos also
produced by the people at GitHub and
it's going to walk you through different
features inside of git and GitHub of how
to check in, check out the code and
check it back in, there's a lot of great
information in these videos so even if
you're not familiar with using git or if
you're just somewhat new to git and
don't fully know it I highly suggest you
take the time to watch these videos
because there's a lot of really great
information in these videos and it's
going to help you expand your knowledge
of this very important tool that's used
by developers all over world called git
and GitHub.